# ["Analytics is not storytelling..." by Cassie Kozyrkov](https://towardsdatascience.com/analytics-is-not-storytelling-a1fe61b1ab6c)

- "Domain expertise is extremely important for analysts - if I didn't have it, I'd better scramble to get it. … (Analysts without domain expertise will) probably snooze past all kinds of useful data because they won't know what they're looking at. It's a bad sign to see an analyst entering a new domain without immediately asking, 'Where can I find a domain guru to talk to?'"
- "As an analyst, I'm not supposed to sell you anything. I'm here to be your eyes and get you as much inspiration per minute as possible. The reason you need an analyst in the first place is that you don't have time to go poking around in data, but you still want to be the one to call the shots. …You hired me to open your eyes, not to decide on your behalf. You don't want to give up your power to choose and it's my duty to respect that. That is what separates analytics from decision-making and marketing."
- "If I took the marketing or storytelling approach, I'd be blinkering you and impoverishing your view of the possibility space. A good analyst does the opposite, exposing you quickly to a rich variety of perspectives. Ideally, they'll help you absorb all of the information you'd look for if you were the one taking the time to roam around in the data … plus useful things you didn't even know you should ask to see.”
- "As an analyst, I'm not here to funnel you towards my opinion. I'm here to help you form your own."
- "Data journalism is not about helping specific individuals get the data they need. It's about presenting information with mass appeal. In fact, it's the opposite of the tailor-made helpfulness that an analyst can bring to a project… a skilled analyst can provide inspiration that enables a quantum leap for your leader and your business."
